README - Some remarks and words of advice on using PDC
------------------------------------------------------

The major pieces of this distribution are the compiler (PDC), the assembler
(A68k), the linker (BLink), and the libraries and header files.  Tying
everything together is a "front-end" program (CCX), which takes care of a
lot of the drudgery behind creating an executable program.

Things to do before invoking CCX
--------------------------------

CCX requires that the following environment variables be set:

        PDCLibs - Lists the libraries with which to link
        PDCLibDirs - Lists the directories to search for libraries
        PDCIncDirs - Lists the directories to search for include files

Multiple entries for an environment variable are delimited by
semicolons.  See the file s/start on this disk and the documentation to
CCX in the doc directory on this disk for examples of how to use the
environment variables. 

As for your search path, at the very least you ought to have in it the
directory containg CCX, PDC, A68k, and BLink.  This is necessary if you
plan to use CCX. 

Stack size for running PDC should be above the CLI's default of 4K.
20000 bytes is the lowest recommended size.  32000 bytes is sufficient
for most things, up to and including recompiling PDC and its libraries.
To be safe, it is best to set a good large stack size in your startup-sequence,
because forgetting later on usually results in a visit from the Guru.  Should
PDC ever guru on you, the first step to take is bump up the stack.  
  
In summary:

        - Set the environment variables PDCLibs, PDCLibDirs, and PDCIncDirs.
	- CCX requires that PDC, A68k, and Blink be in your search path.
	- PDC needs a MINIMUM of 20K of stack space to run safely.


Headers, Libraries, and Startup code
------------------------------------

Standard C headers can be found in the directory "include" on this disk.
See below for more information on Amiga-specific headers.

The PDC Software Distribution includes the three library files necessary to
compile programs written for the Amiga.  Here are some short descriptions of
them:

* Amiga.lib

     Amiga.lib contains the hundereds of assembly language stubs, or
     "stub-routines", that allow programs written in C to call the Amiga's
     standard set of shared libraries.  It also contains a few functions to
     aid in the construction and destruction of some common entities (eg,
     CreateTask, DeletePort, NewList, etc.).  The version of Amiga.lib
     included with PDC can be built automatically by invoking the makefile
     contained in the "lib/src" directory on this disk and providing a copy
     of your Workbench 1.3 Extras disk.  For convenience, a pre-made copy
     of Amiga.lib is now included on this disk.

* PDC.lib:

     PDC.lib contains a large subset of the ANSI C functions, as well as some
     runtime support functions and other extensions.  A (currently, partial)
     list of the functions provided in PDC.lib and Math.lib can be found in
     the file MANIFEST in the LibSrc directory on the Libs and Utils disk. 

* Math.lib:

     Math.lib contains library and runtime support functions for performing
     floating point math.  Currently, PDC supports only IEEE double precision
     math via the Amiga's shared libraries, ieeedoubbas.library and
     ieeedoubtrans.library.  As you may realize, this default requires that
     Workbench 1.3 be available at runtime in order use the transcendental
     functions.  The source code for the transcendental functions is
     provided, though, if you care to use it.

Most programs written specifically for the Amiga, including much source
code to this distribution, require the Amiga header files in order to
compile.  Those who also own one of the commercial C compilers can
generally get away with using the headers that come with those compilers
[1].  In any case, I recommend that you obtain the Native Developer
Update (NDU) from Commodore-Amiga Technical Support (CATS).  The NDU
includes commented and stripped versions of the Amiga C and assembly
language headers, the fabled Autodocs, a healthy batch of README files,
and Commodore's standard libraries and utilities.  Altogether, you get
four disks for US$20; an excellent deal.

To receive your own copy of the Native Developer Update, send to the
following address a check for $20 (US) made payable to Commodore
Business Machines:

				CATS - Orders
				1200 Wilson Drive
				West Chester, PA  19382


[1]  However, beware of conflicts!  You should set up your PDCIncDirs
     environment variable so that it reads the PDC headers first, lest
     you wind up with the wrong version of stdio.h or some other such
     problem.

Although the PDC Software Distribution is freely distributable, and we wish
it to remain as much so as possible, there is a considerable amount of time
involved in maintaining and improving the software and documentation.  If
it proves financially feasible, Paul Petersen and I would like to continue
improving PDC at a more rapid pace, and still maintain its status as a
freely distributable package.  The bottom line is, your donation of $10, or
whatever PDC is worth to you, is an excellent way to reward our work and
encourage further development.  Furthermore, if you wish to receive the most
current release of PDC directly from us, just send in a donation of $15 or 
more and we'll mail out the three-disk set right away.  Please make all
checks payable to Lionel D. Hummel.

If you have access to Usenet, you can participate in discussion on PDC by
subscribing to the info-pdc mailing list.  You can do this by sending email
to pdc-request@cs.uiuc.edu (uunet!uiucdcs!pdc-request).  Or, if you have
something you wish to discuss with us directly, you can reach us by email:

	lionel%large.UUCP@cs.uiuc.edu         or, on BIX: lhummel
	petersen@uicsrd.csrd.uiuc.edu

				Enjoy,
				Lionel Hummel
				Paul Petersen

                                PDC Software Distribution
                                P.O. Box 4006
                                Urbana, IL  61801-8801
